in a lot of the lectures that I've been
conducting across the country
we have had different kinds of people
from different walks of life
attending these programs
of Ramadan we had some of the biggest
Trappers biggest drug dealers
coming to the mission to attend the
lectures
we've had sisters who go clubbing who
don't even wear hijab
but they've been coming to the programs
you are someone who regularly comes to
the house of Allah may see an individual
who might not necessarily fit the bill
or fit that which you are accustomed to
seeing when you come to the house of
Allah
so it would absolutely be horrendous for
you now to start staring down at them
and start giving them their looks or
making them feel as if
they don't have a right to be in the
house of Allah
sometimes we hate this oh they only come
to the message in Ramadan
right
why did you come to the month why did
you come to the house of Allah you came
in order to increase
in reward you came in order to better
yourself
to increase your knowledge that's why
they came as well
right
so people come my brothers and my
sisters they are different stages of
their Journey
don't be the reason why you push someone
away just because they don't fit what
you are accustomed to seeing when you
regularly come to the house of Allah
sisters or in Haram relationship after a
lecture they were messages
I'm going to try and make change I came
to the program
right
these programs are not just for
religious people should I say or the old
man that you see sitting on the front of
the Masjid
who comes in for every prayer
lectures
I'm not just for these kind of people
right they are for everyone the Quran is
a guidance what just for someone who's
already practicing that right
become
more English
who's being spoken to here
the people Allah didn't just say yeah
there's a huge lesson in this
what does it mean
oh you believe right here A Lie saying O
people
to everyone no matter what
background you have what kind of
individual you are
or what kind of life that you're living
even the non-muslims the Quran is
speaking directly to them indeed
a huge reminder has come to you from
Allah azzawajal and that which is a
shifa
a cure for the hearts
everyone has a heart right
other people who are here that don't
have hearts
we all have hearts and at times we feel
spiritually empty in our hearts right we
are in need of that which is going to
bring this heart to life
and the Quran is there to do that to my
brothers and my sisters hence why
I have chosen to deliver lectures where
I will take out passages from the Quran
and start extrapolating benefits from
these passages in the Quran so that we
are able to implement it on a day-to-day
right dealings day-to-day lives
all right
this is very very crucial my brothers
and my sisters to have this relationship
with the book of Allah honestly I became
tired of giving lectures
there's only so many topics that you
could cover throughout the year
but with the Quran taking passages out I
don't think we will have
enough time in our life to go through
the whole Quran
right every Ayah every verse in the
Quran you can what maybe
structure a whole lecture around it this
is how vast in meaning the book of Allah
also my reason for picking out passages
from the book of Allah
when delivering these lectures
is there anyone here let me ask this
question is there anyone here that
doesn't want satisfaction happiness in
his life
put your hand up if you don't want
happiness in your life
there's nobody here
right we are searching for happiness
we are so searching for contentment and
fulfillment
right I know and you know my brothers
and my sister that we are spiritually
dead empty our times because of the kind
of Lifestyles that we live
the Quran has answers for whatever you
are looking for
eign
nourishes the soul
and preserves your body
[Music]
and guarantees you happiness
more than constantly looking in the book
of Allah
says I'm not seeing anything like that
you're looking for happiness you're
looking for that which is going to give
it a spiritual contentment
now which is going to feed your mind
right look no further than the book of
Allah has the answers that we are crying
out for my brothers and my sisters we
just need to take time out
the search
and to look right
the month of Ramadan was the month of
can anyone tell me
it would be in the month of Ramadan
where we start reading the Quran
so much more right my brothers and my
sister do you think Allah
only wants us to read the Quran or to
reflect and Ponder upon his book in the
month of Ramadan and khalas we close the
Quran we put it back on the shelves and
then he picks up dust throughout the
remaining 11 months and then we pick it
up again in the month of Ramadan
as we mentioned time and time again the
month of Ramadan is an institution
right it's a training camp
it's an opportunity for us to start
introducing new habits into our lives to
get rid of bad ones
right so that we continue it after a
month
we become Pious individuals who save God
the boundaries of Allah
we get into a habit to do what Allah
told us to do or what he wants us to do
and to stay away from the things that he
told us stay away from
so we continue this relationship that we
had with the book of Allah
for the remaining 11 months of the year
so our brother announced
today in
continuation with the theme that I've
chosen throughout these days where I'm
going around delivering different
programs alhamdulillah yesterday in the
Friday
and Coventry went through five benefits
from the life of Ayu Valley
should be made available on the YouTube
channel very very soon right and then we
went through some benefits pertaining to
sorts
right
in one of the other lectures we also
went through benefits from
the man who killed 99
then also
in the lecture after we went through 15
benefits
that you could extrapolate from the
garden that Allah
destroyed that is mentioned to us in
Surah
actually get a chance to go through all
15 benefits men through a couple
right
these verses my brothers and my sisters
that we want to go through are from
al-kahf
the chapter of the cave but there are so
many stories right
we've chosen this part that we want to
go through today because our brothers
wanted us to speak about
which is going to encourage us to start
taking knowledge a lot more seriously
and In this passage this interaction
between
[Applause]
are huge benefits
will change our perspectives
on a lot of that which we see right
unfolding before our eyes
right
any business or gems and powers that I
hope to be in the life
with every single one of you
these buses my brothers and my sisters
are also mentioned in a Hadith
that was narrated by obey nakab
the message
spoke about the interactions they had in
a lot more detail than that which is
mentioned to us in the Quran
the Quran and likewise
my brothers and my sisters they go hand
in hand with one another
we are not quranists or Quran which
means those who only believe in the
Quran and then reject the Hadith you
can't expect to understand the Quran
without the Sunnah of the message
they go hand in hand with one another
you can't separate the two from one
another Allah tells us in the Quran
Islam so that you can elaborate on that
which has been shut down upon you
so that you can elaborate
on this Quran which is a guidance for
the people right so there is an osul
there are principles when it comes to
explaining the Quran
some parts of the Quran they explain
other parts of the Quran you can't know
the full story with what happened with
Musa
from the time he was born all the way to
when he went to Pharaoh pharaon except
by taking
right the different passages
across the Quran and then taking a
holistic meaning of what exactly
happened
and then you have also what tafsiro
foreign
to explain the Quran with the Hadith and
this is an example of that
who was the most knowing of Allah is
that we're just speech at times he
comments on what Allah intended with his
speech
Ari
Imam
chapters this
is
that which is required of a scholar when
he is asked about who the most
knowledgeable person is Right Allah
he credits that knowledge to Allah this
is the chapter heading that Imam
chose for this Hadith now that he's
mentioning in the chapter of knowledge
right why is he choosing this chapter
because
as we will come to know in a moment
as he was giving
says that the message
one time he stood up and he began to
deliver a sermon
foreign right the children of Israel
and as he was delivering this lecture or
this sermon he was asked
who is the most knowledgeable on the
face of his Earth
what was his response
I'm the most knowledgeable
Allah
admonished
and disciplined him for giving this kind
of response
he's the prophet of Allah
he is the most knowledgeable right
however because he didn't credited to
Allah
Allah decided to discipline him he
admonished him
right and there's a huge lesson in this
in his admonishment instructed
to travel out
foreign
that there is
a servant from amongst his servants
meaning
a Scholars they differed was he a
prophet was he a saint was there
right many of the scholars they take the
view that he was actually a prophet
and that's because as we were inshallah
come to know later on
when he did whatever he did because he
took Musa with him right and there was a
time when he ended up killing a young
man
the young man
and as he was doing this right
he wanted from Musa
not to object and not to contest
any of the decisions and actions that he
carries off
so one time he killed the man not even a
man was a young child
a young childhood he killed
there was a time when subhanallah he got
on the ship for free right they didn't
have to pay to get on the ship
right
what did he do he decided to put holding
the ship
and Water started coming out of huh
started coming out of the bottom
let's follow
and then the third time he did something
else as we were coming to inshallah they
went to Village
right and they asked to be hosted nobody
decided to host them and then he saw a
wall that was falling apart
he said something that was salaam did
not like
eventually he said
whatever I did was not out of my own
accord meaning
it was out of divine revelation that I
carried out all of these actions of
killing a young child
right putting a hole in a ship
right
and the other third thing that he did it
was all out of divine revelation and
because of that the scholars they
mentioned that he was a prophet
due to the Revelation that he acted upon
Joni comes down on who on prophets right
so Allah
revealed to him
there is
a servant from amongst my servants
right
that I want you to go to where is
The Junction at the two Seas
he is more knowledgeable than you or
Musa
how do I get him
[Music]
it was said to him take a big fish with
you place this fish inside of a bucket
and then take it on your journey
once you you lose this fish that you are
carrying in this bucket
and that will be the place that he's at
so you take it with you and then when
you see this fish now slipping out or
jumping out of this bucket
he's there
he set off on his journey
he had this servant that he took along
with him the servant's name was you
shall noon
so he carried this fish inside of this
bucket with him
up until they reach this rock
almost
seeing his Rock thought it was a good
idea
to lay down on this rock because they
were tired
right
now
right so they slept on it
so after going to sleep this fish that
he was carrying is slipped out of this
bucket right and jumped back into the
sea
foreign
they continued on their Journey
right
the night had come to an end and then in
the morning he continued traveling
right
and then subhanallah there was a point
where he began to feel hungry
so he said to his servant
rightana
bring us food right bring us lunch
indeed we've become extremely fatigued
and tired while traveling
the scholars they mentioned they didn't
actually get tired till after this fish
that he was carrying had slipped back
into the sea
right so Allah caused that to happen in
order for him to realize
right that the fish had actually slipped
out because what did Allah tell him or
reveal to him that once this fish slips
back into the sea that's where Allah
oh he continued to travel
hmm
so the narration States
as we just mentioned he didn't feel
tired that he actually went past where
he needed to stop
foreign so his servant said to him
remember when we
took a pit stop right
we went to sleep I actually forgot the
fish there
um
pain in the city
right this is exactly what we're seeking
foreign
retracting their footsteps
all the way back to where they had
forgotten that fish they were carrying
so they already travel Savannah for all
night and in a day they had to go all
the way back
almost
they arrived at the place
when the fish had slipped back into the
sea
they saw suddenly a man standing there
and this man that he saw standing there
was covered in His Garment
right
foreign
how do you people greet one another in
the lands that you are from
return the Salaam
straight away he says
is it possible for me to accompany you
so that I can learn
from that which Allah
has taught you of guidance
right
straight away
says to him
you won't be able to be patient
with what I'm going to be doing and that
which you're going to be witnessing for
me right
it's something that you won't be able to
be patient with
in the Quran
indeed Allah has given me knowledge
that he has taught me
which you are not aware of but you don't
have
right
and you have knowledge that Allah taught
you which I don't have
foreign
but he's saying don't worry I'll be
patient with whatever you have up your
sleeve
right
right okay let's go Fontana
so they began to walk on the coast right
on the seaside
and they didn't have a ship with them
as they were walking a ship came past
and offered to take them on board
without a charge without a fee
they wanted to you know just be there
for their Ali thought was he had a very
good reputation in his area
come on board nobody knows Musa yeah
so they decided to board the ship
right
for everything
right took them without a charge without
a fee
foreign
and was on the edge of the ship
as this
is
the ship
they saw right this bird
what do you call it English when the
bird starts
started packing the sea drinking Farm
to see that it found
right in front of right
so I packed once or twice
enjoys this comparison you know how this
bird is now pecking into the sea
is this bad now reducing from the water
that you find inside of the sea is it
reducing from it
it affects it in no way whatsoever
right
in no way whatsoever
says the same way you see this bird now
taking from the sea
the knowledge that we possess that I
possess and that you possess
right it doesn't take anything away from
the knowledge of Allah the meaning
Allah's knowledge is so vast
right
no matter how knowledgeable you think
you are
says above every individual who
possesses knowledge
there is someone else that possesses
more knowledge and Allah as they would
just position more knowledge than
everyone
keep your feet on the ground
no matter how long you live you'll never
be able to Encompass all of knowledge
took a couple of steps forward and then
began to put a hole on the ship
I began to put a hole in the ship
become surprised is that what she's
doing shocked right
they decided to take you on board
without a charge and now you're putting
a hole inside of the ship well in order
to ground them
this was a response
is
I say to you that you won't be able to
be patient
right
then I say that you won't be patient
with that which you witnessed me
carrying out
and he said
please don't hold me to account for that
which I did out of forget for us
Iana
this first incident
right the message says it was done out
of forgetfulness
so he's excused
foreign
they run into a bunch of children that
were playing with one another
went to one of these young children
grabbed them and pulled his head off the
body
kill them
have you killed an innocent soul
who didn't kill anyone but then you
decided to take his life
right
by this point losing patience
then I say to you that you won't be able
to be patient and that which you
witnessed me carrying out
and then they continued
walking
is
they ran into a group of people who were
residents in this Village that they came
across
they requested to be hosted
they are foreigners in this Village that
they have just arrived at
but they refused
is also a wall
that was on the verge of collapsing
right
foreign
approached this wall and straightened it
he fixed it
um
if you want you can think you can charge
them for it you know they refuse to host
us right go and charge them for this
work that you just carried out
responded back by saying
this is it
we are now going to what go aways
this is the end of it this is the end of
the gym
right he told him already twice he gave
him two chances the first one was done
how to forget from us
the second time forgetfulness wasn't
mentioned
it was extremely shocked at what he just
witnessed you just took somebody's life
I think all of us if we saw someone
right taking the life of another would
be shocked by it right
right our
instant Instinct would be to go and do
something about it we are human beings
said
foreign
I wish that he was patient so that we
could hear the rest of the story
right
and another generation we are told
he would have seen amazing things from
His companion
was impatient
my brothers and my sisters
began to explain to him
why
he did whatever he executed or whatever
he carried out
we are told
foreign
and somebody the day right carried
you on for free instead of being nice to
them you decided to put a hole inside of
their ship
it belonged to a
bunch of needy individuals right who are
poor
yeah they used to carry out their work
on sea
foreign
I wanted
to fault this ship
in front of them
there was a king whenever they would
come to
the lands or whenever they would come to
shore
the king who was oppressive who was
tyrannical
any
ship that wasn't faulty he would seize
it from them
so he wanted to put a fault in it so
that when the king this you know this
tyrannical ruler sees this faulty ship
you know he would just let it pass by
right
that's why I done that
is
as for the second incident
the second time when
this is something that
is
pulled his head off his body he killed
him Allah did he tells us
the parents of this child that was
killed they were believers
that if
or once this child had grown old
that he would be the cause why they end
up falling into kufur into this belief
message
so being killed in front of him by other
was destined for disbelief he was
destined for the Hellfire
right this was his Destiny had he lived
on he would have been the reason why his
parents become disbelievers
the scholars of tafsir they mentioned
because they loved them so much now he
has disbelieved he has apostated they
may well have followed him
into apostasy that's why I decided to
take his life
is
right
Allah tells us this wall that he fixed
that he repaired that he saw was on the
verge of
falling apart right it belonged to two
orphans
but when needy
and Allah
wanted them
right to unravel
right or to dig up the treasures that
were buried under this wall
okay right
and their father was righteous
so Allah
didn't want anyone to unravel or to take
out these Treasures
while they were still young in age Allah
wanted them to benefit and to take
advantage of these Treasures after they
grow old
all right this is what Allah wanted
so this is why a lot of those in reveal
to Harvard
to straighten up this wall right because
you never know now that this wall has
damaged or is falling apart people will
maybe right
find this treasure that is buried under
and then stop fighting over it and
deprive these young atem young orphans
I would like brother and sister take
this from me
how many a time do I receive a case as
someone who distributes inheritance
right
young men and women who are taken
advantage of especially back home
their father
you know he he owned land he's passed
away
you would think to yourself subhanallah
his own siblings
would maybe be there for their nephews
and their nieces but no they are the
first the pulse
and that which their dead brother has
left behind
so they deprived right
very very common in the subcontinent in
the Arab world as well no Rushmore
whatsoever
people are ready to give up their Deen
for a bit of Dunya right
10 benefits my brothers and my sisters
just getting started
that was the story that is mentioned in
the Quran
and these 10 benefits I'm hoping be in
the lion body
will change
our perspective and how we look at
that which is unraveling that which is
happening right before our eyes
benefit number one my brothers and my
sisters
everything that happens
happens for a reason
everything that Allah
causes you to go through
of Trials adversities tribulations
difficulties and hardships
right
there is a reason for it whether you see
it or not
how many a time my brothers and my
sister have we been in a situation where
we thought that this was the best thing
for us
I'll give the example of marriage
princess Charlie
that you so desperately want
right
you tell yourself that there's no one
else on the face with this Earth
right that is good for you other than
this lady here that you just met
four minutes in that position right
you're ready to tear down Darby just so
you could get her
everyone is against you saying no don't
you're like no chance she is the best
one for me and she's going to bring me
happiness
to make things worse
your best friend comes along and he
snatches her from under your nose
does it happen without shadow of a doubt
remember there was even a case one times
this happened with two sisters right
this is far really badly wanted his
brother
and he asked for a hundred marriage
and everything was going so smoothly
maybe a month or two before the big day
right month or two before the big day
he decided to go for her sister
decided to go for her sister so what did
she do
she went to a magician
and she decided to carry out a magic
spell or request
a magic spot to be done on his brother
who initially asked for Handy marriage
anyways
how many times do we think that this
lady or this brother is the best for us
it doesn't work out
you feel hurt and sad and miserable for
a set period of time years go by
blesses you with a spouse that the Mind
couldn't imagine
she has these qualities and she has
these traits
that you never ever thought
would be found in a lady
that's when you say if that didn't
happen I wouldn't have this today agreed
everything happens for a reason my
brothers and my sisters I wouldn't be
sitting here and Allah Knows Best
if my friend didn't get shot
friend of mine was shot
right back in the day when I was living
in London it was the reason why so many
brothers left the roads
some went to Egypt some went to Yemen
some moved out of London right
everything happens for a reason
it was the time when my parents they
moved me from London to Leicester
Allah knows best if that didn't happen
either one of three things would have
happened
I would either be dead
or in prison or I would have joined Isis
a lot of brothers in the area right
and the fate of one of these three
things
right I have many friends that are in
prison
some that are dead
right
one of my own relatives that I used to
hang around with went abroad nobody
knows where he is
um
so everything happens for a reason my
brothers my sisters
right and a lot of the time you don't
see the good in things
right and this evil and I'm going to put
it what in quotation marks
this is the first lesson that we're
taking from this right
killed that young man was he doing it
out of his own accord or was it due to
divine revelation that Allah was sending
down upon him
it was what Allah azzawajan instructed
him to carry out
Paddy lived on he would have been the
reason why
his parents would have followed him into
disbelief and Allah is aware of
everything even before it happens
why am I mentioning this as the number
one point of my brothers and my sisters
we are living in a time and age and I
mentioned this last time around when I
came here
we go to these universities there are
breeding grounds for koforship
feminism liberalism secularism right and
also what
rainbow team right
throwing around doubts left right and
Center
every now and again I'm dealing with
University students and I went
and traveled the country I went to 27
universities but I didn't go to Derby
when the 27 universities I engage with
students
who has come to me with a flurry of
doubts
and they don't have answers their Iman
is shaken to the Core
all right
they don't have the tools to equip
themselves to repel these doubts that
are shaking their Iman shaking their
faith
right
a lot of that which we hear is
there's a law of evil right
or the problem of evil
if there's really a god why is all of
this taking place here you have your
answers
an answer to some of these contemporary
doubts that we hear
everything happens for a reason my
brothers and my sisters
sometimes Allah causes something to
happen to prevent some Evil coming your
way
right
there was a chef in a Medina it was an
African chef
that was forced out of his home in
Africa a water place
and guess what brothers and sisters
after being chased out of his home he
ended up becoming
a teacher from the teachers of the
Harold he has the children
he is of African origin Allah honored
him right to teach the Arabs
in one of the most greatest places on
the face of this Earth
everything happens for a reason
right
sometimes you go through divorces
right well I know Brothers they'll tell
you that the best thing ever happened to
them was them going through a divorce
the best ever thing
some of you guys might agree a lot
right Allah prevented you from having
children with this lady right Allah
after having children this lady and then
if divorce was to take place after that
we've got Muslim ladies where hijab that
are meant to be practicing but they are
taking the ex-husbands to court
right she wants him to suffer
subhanallah she wants him to suffer
but Allah also decree that you go
through divorce right at the beginning
to save you from all of these problems
that have made potentially
right
can you see why my brothers and my
sisters knowledge is extremely extremely
important I'll tell you guys something
else to happen in the month of Ramadan I
went to visit one of my best friends in
Leicester
as I was saying there guys
his mother walked in
first thing his mother said to me was
Muhammad
I'm angry with Allah
and by the way I'm sitting in a mansion
huge house I'm angry with Allah
I said why auntie I'm in shock
why aren't he
because I fast I pray
right I do all of these acts of worship
and even then
Allah is making me go through problems
right
I have to calm the Auntie down imagine
in the month of Ramadan she's refusing
to fast or she broke her fast because
she's angry with Allah is this a life
statement my brothers and my sisters
this is borderline Islam
so I started explaining to Auntie
everything happens for reason yes some
of our children are going through some
difficulties and hardships in their
marriages
I was like Auntie have you forgotten
about all of the blessings that you have
look at this big house that you live in
right I don't think I've ever entered
into a house here in the UK that is as
big as theirs
every day you have food inside of your
house then every day that you wake up
Auntie or your fridge is empty and if it
is empty you have the finances to go and
buy food
I
rectifying you ahida it requires
knowledge my brothers and my sisters all
these University students their Akita
has been shaken to the Core a lot of the
time it's because of these atheists that
say if there's really a god why is all
of this happening
everything happens for a reason and I'll
say this again how many a times we've
been in a position
what we thought that this was the best
thing for us
yes down the line my brothers and my
sisters
Allah gave us that which the Mind
couldn't imagine this is when we say if
that didn't happen I wouldn't have this
today
all right
everything happens for a reason even if
it is war
a lot of you guys here see
right come from countries with those
Wars do you guys agree
and now love about it making a lot of
money
you live with peace and security so hey
you're able to acquire education that
you might not have been able to do or to
acquire if you are back home
everything happens for reason
and it may well be that you send money
back home to your siblings helping them
out maybe if you were all together
someone to help out
wouldn't be that
and they would have been living a very
different life everything happens for a
reason
so hey
I could go on for days brothers and
sisters the amount of things that have
happened
in my life
which was a big reason as to why
goodness came to my way at the time it
didn't make sense to me
right
even triple 17 he says
if it wasn't for the trials and
tribulations of this world my brothers
and my sisters
one would be afflicted with the disease
of arrogance self-amazement he would
even pick up fironi sentiments
you know Pharaoh the man who claimed
you would pick up Trace similar to the
ones that he had
doesn't this happen my brothers and my
sister at times
with people who have a lot of money
walking on the face of this Earth as if
he's on cloud nine
right untouchable
but then Allah takes everything away
from him
humbled
right so Allah times my brothers and my
sister he says
this is from the rahma of Allah that at
times he causes you to lose
that which you may possess to keep your
feet on the ground
to keep your feet on the ground
well I don't think any of us want to
meet Allah we have a mustard grain of
arrogance in our hearts
right I've seen people from zero to zero
humbled
I sat down with them and I'm thinking to
myself
may Allah cure this guy because he has a
bit of money the way he speaks the way
you operate the way he carries himself
up until he was left bankrupt broken
with absolutely nothing
[Music]
nothing to put out a GoFundMe link
so that I can help him out
all right
alive they're doing humble you
so it happens for a reason my brothers
and my sisters
right don't forget the good times
a principle that we are taught
all right don't forget the good times
this verse was mentioned alongside the
verses of talat
of divorce don't forget the good times
sometimes they're very quick right when
it comes to just wanting to separate
Allah is telling you don't forget the
good times
and the principle here is
look at those who have less than you
don't look at those who are more it will
make you a lot more grateful
some of us are complaining about the one
bedroom Council flat
some people don't even have shelter
brothers and sisters
they better have anything
look at those who are less fortunate
look at all the times looked after you
look at a human
18 years of trials and tribulation that
he went through in his health in his
wealth he was Forsaken and abundant but
prior to that decades
right decades that he lived a life of
luxury he didn't start getting angry at
Allah
right he began to call on to Allah being
grateful for whatever situation he's in
does that make sense
so there's knowledge my brothers and my
sisters with a lot of these doubts that
are being
right
shot at us especially in University well
like after the lecture that I gave in
some of these University brothers were
like alas I'm going to get out of
philosophy loss
I'm leaving philosophy class I asked him
do you feel shaken that Professor does
not care he doesn't care whether you're
a Muslim or a Jew or a Christian you're
a person religiosity he's going to try
and strip you of your faith
right well I think it's scary for one to
go to university and it's not equipped
right one times subhanallah was even
dealing with the case the brother
messaged me saying that his sister has
left the fault of his son but the mother
doesn't want to do anything about it why
she doesn't want to rock the boat
doesn't want to distract her studies she
focus now
foreign
and you care more about her education
or maybe an answer that you want to give
to your friends you know the aunties
they get together they have tea sessions
huh and they begin to discuss what is
your daughter doing what is your sister
doing what so they take pride on my
daughters doing medicine
and you don't have
a clue of what they're doing inside of
these schools
but they're messaging us
don't know what to do
don't know how to go about the situation
I
it's a zoo brothers and sisters what
happens when you go to a zoo and there
are no Gates Tiger's gonna pounce on you
I witness it as someone who is doing
civil engineering in love brain
we had what
huh we had orientalists people who would
learn my religion and your religion not
so you can become Muslim
so you could use it against Muslims
anyone who's vulnerable shaky with his
deal they would go and Target him and
I'm like I'm here
learning civil engineering while these
guys are learning my religion
right
number two my brothers and my sisters
I'm gonna run through it now very very
quickly
a big lesson that we take away my
brothers and my sisters from this
because
is that
we as human beings are deficient
we haven't encompassed all of knowledge
sometimes you see someone making a
certain judgment call
right
or he makes a decision that we struggle
to comprehend and we're very very quick
we're very very Hasty in holding him to
account
and I've been seeing this a lot
especially with brothers who have gone
abroad
they've now started seeking knowledge
they've picked up a little bit here and
there
and they think that everything is black
and white
I'm not talking about the core
fundamentals of our religion that's
clear
right seeing someone making a particular
judgment call
he's doing something a certain way that
you are not familiar with
it could be that our
right it could also be
certain business Investments that he is
carrying out
just like this pistol of Musa
right the story
later he said to him huh
this is the time
this is not the reasoning the
explanation of what you couldn't
just ask why my brothers and my sister
especially when you start seeking a
little bit of knowledge you begin to
think that you are more knowledgeable
than everyone
you picked up something here and there
take it easy especially if that
individual is more experienced than you
he's more senior than you
right ask them is there any reason as to
why you're doing it like this
right
even the scholars they mentioned
has been attributed some of the
righteous of the past
if you want to know the mistake of your
Chef go and sit with someone else
he may give you a different perspective
on things
right he may give you insight
and that which you know
never have ever told you about
right
don't enter into discussion already your
ideas are carved in stone this is not
the trait of a taliburon especially when
he's at that stage of seeking knowledge
be someone who is ready to learn more
because if you already have ideas that
are carved in stone
you will never be open to improvisation
exploring these ideas that you have
does that make sense
why literally before I came here I was I
sent this whatever I just said right now
I sent it to one of the students of
knowledgeable
sometimes what happens is when you go
abroad you tend to become extremely
opinionated
huh and what people are doing
you're not in the kitchen the kitchen
gets hot at times
if you can't take the heat get out the
kitchen this is what we say right
you don't know what is going on you
don't have the full
right
story of that which is taking place
this guy's becoming watering how he
gives down
hi
benefit number three my brothers and my
sisters
but before I go on to benefit number
three I want to tell you guys about your
parents
no matter how knowledgeable you become
one thing that you will never have over
your parents and your seniors is what
experience
life experience
as much as we might think that we are
you know on top of our game huh we are
slick
they have life experience that you can't
buy with money brothers and sisters
right even at times when they advise you
pertaining to marriage
they may tell you right they may tell
you
stay away from this guy
and that is because he has
certain cultural traits that you might
really really struggle with
most important thing that we look at
when pursuing
right the opposite agenda is what Dean
right that's the most important thing
but because of the kind of background
that you come from you may struggle I'll
give you guys an example right
reason I was dealing with a marriage
problem between husband and wife
brother comes from Humble backgrounds
while she comes from a mansion
she's had luxury
and now you want to take her into maybe
some Council flat huh she's not gonna
struggle brother
or into a two-bedroom house
you're gonna have to be extremely
patient
that's why the scholars they discussed
that a student of knowledge
right
maybe it's a good idea that he doesn't
go for princess huh
they normally tend to not have much
but you get married to this Filthy Rich
lady and in every way she's taking you
to the mall okay I'm a skin you don't
have that
huh
she comes from a wealthy background and
you come from very moderate or very
humble backgrounds and then your parents
think I don't think that's a good idea
but you're just once Blown Away by her
beauty and her saying yes yes yes yes
yes
huh
when the shahua has spiraled out of
control huh one's desires to get married
you're not thinking straight my friend
you're not thinking from there you're
thinking of somewhere else
right
and you block out everything that your
parents are telling you
you need to calm down a little bit
does that make sense
I know of course there are cases where
the parents are unreasonable they're
very old-fashioned I'm not talking about
that
I'm talking about Sometimes some genuine
advice that you're being given that you
don't see because you're young in your
lacking experience
right
again
this is the reason for that which you
weren't patient for
Musa phone he was patient he would find
out things that
right the mind can't imagine
number three my brothers and my sisters
taking an innocent life my brothers and
sisters is from the most greatest of
sins
maybe five seven more minutes and we
should be done
all right
taking a life my brothers and my sisters
is from the most dangerous of things
from the most filthiest of Acts
why do we find Muslims squaring up to
other Muslims
with weapons that they're carrying
because we haven't understood how
serious this actually is the message of
some told us about people who carry
weapons
which they then take out
right
where they may be where they may be
to take that individual's life or to
just scare him
that's what we hear right I just used it
to scare the other individual foreign
was killed
I'm saying
he was extremely eager to take the life
of his brother right isn't this what he
wanted to do except that the killer
managed to get the final blow that took
his life he want to do the exact same
thing
all right
we know the copper right the cargo my
brothers and my sisters the Kaaba
recently the rapper DJ Khaled went to
the Kaaba
you guys seen the video going around
how did he react upon seeing the camera
does anyone know
he began to cry
someone who's involved in sin day and
night my brothers and my sisters was
humbled upon seeing the Kaaba
right it brought him to tears you know
the message is alive and said
foreign
or try to tear it apart would anyone try
or even think of that other than right
that the Kaaba is destroyed and then
the stones of the Cabo or the past of
the Kaaba are removed one by one
is lesser of a problem in the eyes of
Allah taking the life of a Muslim
seeing the karma humbles you my brothers
and my sisters
that was the most sacred in eyes of
Allah is the sanctity of the Muslim
but it's become extremely cheap right
it holds no worth it holds no value
taking a knife
is fine just because it's from another
area
I need to show him sometimes you just
need to Juke him up a little bit huh
just a little bit
and then it escalates it goes out of
control
your whole life goes upside down whether
you're a killer or the killed
not thinking straight
number four my brothers and my sisters
we learn a huge principle say leading
legal Maxim
right
now which pertains to weighing the pros
and the cons
this is a very very important legal
Maxim in our religion right and likewise
taking the lesser of the two evils
sometimes you find yourself in a
predicament This legal Maxim is
extremely extremely extremely handy
well you have to pick one
the Sharia teaches you to take the
lesser of the two evils
weighing the pros and the consume
um
right you're in that predicament you've
got two Haram and there's no way out of
it you have to take one of them the
league on Maxim States my brothers and
my sister you have to take the lesser of
the two evils
right it comes in handy in so many
aspects of life
does that make sense
it wasn't for time then I would have
loved to elaborate and give a lot of
examples isn't this exactly what is
this individual is going to live and
he's going to be the reason why his
parents they follow him into cover right
let me just take his life now while
Fitness
being proud in your religion my brothers
and my sisters is more greater
than you being taken off the face of
this Earth You Being
killed
you'd rather meet Allah and you are
sound in your attita the message
if you want fit enough for your servant
the message I will say this
then take my soul and I'm not trialed in
my religion and again now which is going
to protect you fortify you from all
these knowledge
messages
five more minutes guys and we're done I
think I said that five minutes ago right
[Music]
these are very very important benefits
apologies I think I went a bit too long
with the storytelling at the beginning
okay
weighing the pros and the cons and
taking the lesser of the two evils
that's exactly
was number four I hope you guys are
writing it down
right
a revelation that was sent down upon him
is that if this child lives he's going
to be the reason why his parents become
kuffa
car crash brothers and sisters
there are four people in the car three
young children and one
older person all of the children passed
away
and the only one that comes out alive
is the parent
someone is saying how could Allah allow
such thing to happen they should have
been given the chance to live she's
already lived a life
you never know right
what these children could have caused
their parents you know how many times
I've heard a parent saying I wish I
never had the other child
or they begin to make dry against their
children because of how much trouble
right they're causing them or they can't
go to sleep because he doesn't know
where his children are
right they come home late they're
rebellious you don't know what Allah is
they're just protecting you from
right again
there's nothing that Allah creates that
is purely evil
is purely evil this is subjective is the
way you look at it
anything negative that happens my
brothers you can put what a positive
spin to it
there's a light at the end of the tunnel
hmm
number five my brothers and my sisters
Allah azzawajal will protect your
offspring
through your righteousness
what's the evidence for this
is
the Third
action that is carried out when he
straightened up the world Allah told us
the father was righteous
foreign
Allah wanted them to grow older so that
later on they can what
huh dig out the treasures that was left
behind for them
here is the cash
their father was righteous and because
of his righteousness
Allah azzawajal protected his offspring
Allah was there for them
right
they say to the father
of these children
individuals
foreign
this righteous man
that is now the reason as to why they
are being protected was a father from
seven generations ago because he still
referred to as a father
because of his righteousness Allah is on
just seven generations down the line is
protecting them
so you my friends
once they get married and wants to have
children
the best thing that you can do for your
children is to better yourself
right I'll tell you guys something
that's also very very touching say the
number saved again it was from the
companions
every time he wanted to pray the night
prayer he would look at his child he
would look at his son
and he was saying
because the reason why I'm praying more
and more is so that Allah can Rectify
you and so that Allah can protect you
and then he would cry while reciting
that father was righteous this person
okay
also Abdullah Miss route
[Music]
whenever you wanted to pray the night
prayer his young child was sleeping
he would look at him and say I mean
because of you I'm praying
and then he would cry reciting the
statement of Allah
so my brothers and my sisters if you
want and this is a very common question
like I sent to me
if you want righteous children here my
brothers and my sisters are four quranic
advices
Rectify yourself because of this verse
you can't expect your child to become
halfhead of the Quran while you're
playing Netflix every day in your house
the children are going to go down the
direction of their parents a lot of the
time right
[Music]
every newborn he's born upon the federal
when the local domestic lies him says
the parents
they turn him into a Jew or into a
Christian or you know or they turn him
into a juicy it's not just these three
that the Hadith is limited to
it could be that they become Netflix's
because that's all they know all they
see their parents watching Hollywood
Bollywood Somali wood huh this is how
the children are nurtured from a very
young age what do you expect him later
on or someone who just cares about Dunya
would you expect from a child tomorrow
oh he's gonna look at his gun yeah
number two
make the eye for them
as mentioned in the Quran
foreign
or the most virtuous prayer after the
obligatory prayers
right
is the prayer that you pray at home you
know your sooner praise my brothers and
my sisters off their issue you're going
to want to pray tour accounts right it's
better to pray at home from the
reasonings behind it
that why the missile is the best to do
it inside of your house is that sold
your Offspring can see it
well like kids as young as one and a
half they pray did you guys know that
does anyone disagree here
one and a half years of age they prayed
one and a half years of age they pray
brothers and sisters
why
because he watches his parents pray
they'll get them out and they'll start
making the
right and they'll start doing the exact
same actions
also kids as young as one and a half
they know how to go on Netflix
and I have to go on YouTube
right
and they put on Umar and Hannah
number four is
seek refuge in Allah
devil that he goes anywhere near them
I only have five more minutes
and I've said this three times now
number six benefit number six very very
quickly my brothers and my sisters
who was more virtuous Musa
right he's from the five Great prophets
of Allah
right and even then he went to take
Knowledge from someone who is less
virtuous from him humility brothers and
sisters it doesn't matter how old you
become
sometimes what happens to my brothers
and my sisters
right actually I'm going to mention is a
sixth in the seventh part but here what
we take is taking knowledge
from someone who may be less than you no
matter how knowledgeable you become you
are all are always in need of Taken
knowledge
yeah
[Music]
someone who's less than him someone
who's at the same stage or someone
that's what hiding these three people
are two technological
number seven my brothers and my sisters
it might well be that you are extremely
knowledgeable in one sector
for example you are very good
but then you are not that knowledgeable
when it comes to Hadith
sometimes what the shaytan says is
you've reached a rotiba such a high
status in something how you're not going
to go back to school
right sitting so humbly
shaytan what pushes you away from that
and sometimes this happens my brothers
and my sisters with individuals who are
extremely well versed in their sector of
engineering for example he's a doctor
or he's a school teacher in mathematics
he's reached a very high level
and then it comes to know that he needs
to seek beneficial knowledge in order to
function
right
that arrogance stops him from learning
the dean of Allah because of the level
that he's reached in his profession
hmm
number eight my brothers and my sisters
the way you speak to your teacher
is it possible that I can accompany you
so that I can learn from that which
Allah told you sometimes we talk to
people
who have that which we are in need of as
if we are deserving
as if we have a right over that which we
are asking from them
seeking knowledge my brothers and my
sister is not like learning mathematics
you know this whole Academia you walk in
the class and you talk to your teachers
as if you have every right to know that
which they possess
walking with arrogance and we walk out
with pride
right knowledge is very different right
knowledge is very very different
you have to be ready to smother yourself
on the soil
in order to get that knowledge
if you're not patient with being
humiliated at times the teacher will
humiliate you
you'll never be able to acquire that
much
you will have ignorance for the rest of
your life
sometimes they walk around just to let
you know that you know
number nine my brothers and sisters
the virtue of knowledge
and traveling out to it
my brothers and my sisters he was giving
down he had a huge responsibility
having said that he left them to go and
seek morons
right
of course at times he may have
responsibilities your parents and I'm
not referring to that
right sometimes what happens is we learn
a little bit of knowledge and the dawah
opens up to us we have so many
opportunities
forgetting that you really are in need
of knowledge
more and more
and the shaytan causes you to stay
so he left that behind in order to go
and seek more knowledge
number 10 my brothers and my sisters and
I'm done
right there is a type of knowledge my
brothers and my sisters which you can
acquire with your hard work
with the intelligence that you have
right all the work that you put in
reading books and whatever have you
however there is a type of knowledge
that is
there's a type of knowledge that can
only be acquired from Allah
no matter how much effort you put in you
will not be able to acquire the
knowledge you have to ask Allah to open
these doors for you
no matter how much you try you'll never
be able to acquire it
right
go and think that directly from Allah
because
keep knocking on that door don't tell
yourself I can't do it I can't memorize
I can't reach a good level when it comes
to knowledge
right keep knocking on the door
the giving of your lord is not
restricted
drug dealers you saw them in the Medina
they left their lifestyle and now they
once
people who used to carrying knives
brothers and sisters those were Rob
people
huh
Allah
right
there's other points that I've written
down to conclude my brothers and my
sisters
every single one of us here we want
gender
isn't that so some of us may seek Jannah
through fasting some of us may see
gender through praying
some of us may seek Journal through
foreign
people think this Hadith was speaking
about that you have to pack your bag and
you have to go to Yemen or to Medina or
to Riyadh or whatever or Egypt no
yes of course that's the best thing but
brothers and sisters if you do a little
bit every day are you not seeking
knowledge you cannot function and
navigate around Fitness
except through knowledge
Fitness
that is shaking
and The Temptations that we have my
brothers and sisters right
I've been telling a lot of the different
massages huh
okay no problem we don't want to seek
knowledge should we be surprised
tomorrow
that Muhammad
they're walking into the house and he's
holding a Christmas tree
and then you and the father say to him
what are you doing because that walk
well thank you just doesn't know we are
uneducated as a generation what do we
expect from them or when they come home
anything that I don't know what my
gender is anymore
I get Paris message me all the time
about this
damn confused
am I binary
apparently you don't even need to have a
gender anymore
or the child comes home and wallahi my
friend told me this when I was sitting
in his house in the month of Ramadan his
child comes home
from re class
because that
today I learned that there are so many
different gods there's a lot of gods in
it that
which one should we choose
my friend goes to me this is what I've
done on my head
I think that's sitting down you have to
educate him
he had to talk to him
this happened in Ramadan guys
right which God shall I choose that
and if you don't have the answers who's
gonna answer their questions for them
and you know what happens sometimes the
father or the mother gets angry or says
my son's got a gin bring the rocky no he
doesn't
he just doesn't know
and he's asking these questions
right think about the long term
especially you shabab
next generation is expected to be better
or worse
as the Scotland prime minister huh
okay Martin said oh it's not a sin
we don't know we'll probably just
Embrace that because he's a leader
I apologize
because I went five minutes overboard he
gave me
um the heads up how many times
may Allah bless every single one of you
guys I apologize for what really just
going over both
I really you know
went over the time may Allah bless you
guys I hope you guys know it's down to
10 points
on every single one of you guys if Allah
does not reunite Us in as well may Allah
bring us together in the highest
possible
[Music]
foreign